Right now I have five agents working in
a swarm on my codebase. They are working
in isolated work trees sending mail
between one another. There's a
communication layer that is happening.
They are all working on uh issues that
are tracked. We can see, you know,
another piece of mail just got sent over
here. We can inspect an agent down here,
watch what it's up to, as well as talk
with the coordinator agent, which is in
charge of the whole workflow. Today, I'm
going to talk about what it feels like
to develop this way. uh why I am using
this system more and more as well as
point you towards how you can use this
system that I have built. If you don't
know me, my name is Jamon West. I'm an
agentic engineer. I obsess over AI
agents and AI agent coding. Um I am
about as AI native as engineers can be.
What I am working on and talking about
today is Overstory. Um, and I want to
say that the the concepts I'm going to
be discussing right now. Um, these are
true for any sort of agentic swarm
system. Overstory is just the project
that I've built because I want to
understand how a swarm actually operates
and have full customization over my
swarm. So, uh, this repo is pretty
crazy. Uh, in the past I started it on
Friday and we have, you know, 235
commits already. It's going lightning
quick. Um, so today I'm going to turn
Overtory on itself and dog food it. Um,
sort of build this self-improving
system. So before I jump any further
into this, I want to put a huge
disclaimer here. Agent swarms are brand
new. Uh, they require a ton of trust in
agentic systems. If you are not very
excited about where AI development is
going, um, where AI coding tools can
take you, this might be a lot of
information to take in. So, just putting
a disclaimer here that this is crazy and
this does not look like traditional
development in any sort of way. Um, this
doesn't even look like using cloud code.
So, here I am in the Overstory repo. Um,
I've had people ask me, you know, what
does it actually look like to run the
Overstory system? What does it look like
to run an agent swarm? So hopefully I
can showcase a little bit about a proper
workflow that I go through when I'm
developing a system like this as well as
any other project where I'm using
Overstory. So Overstory has a
coordinator system. You can think of
this as like the uh orchestration agent.
Um and I can just run overstory
coordinator start and this will boot up
the coordinator agent. So this agent is
in charge of the entire orchestration of
my swarm of my agent swarm. So in
another terminal I can run overstory
dashboard and this will show me all the
agents that I have running right now.
You know these are previous merges that
previous workflows have gone through. Um
you can see this agent is asking me what
to work on next. Um I have a list of
beads issues that I want to have this
coordination agent work on. So I'm going
to copy those in real quick and I'll be
right back. Okay. So I've just sent the
coordinator agent a list of issues.
These are tracked via beads. If you're
not familiar with feeds, I'd recommend
going and check that out. Um, but this
is just a selection of issues that the
agent is going to go work through, get
context on, and then we'll see the
delegation process begin. As my
coordinator is gathering context here, I
want to say that that is likely the only
prompt that I'll have to send the
coordinator agent for all, you know,
seven or eight of those issues to be
completely fixed end to end, which is a
wild thing to say. Um, but that is sort
of the truth of agentic swarms, right?
We are very much abstracting our role as
the human in the loop to a point of
where I am now out of the loop. I I sent
my single prompt of what I want the
swarm to work on. And now the swarm is
going to get started working on that
selection of problems. My coordinator
agent has just gathered all the context
it needs to begin work on these issues.
We can see this coordinator broke it up
into three different team leads. So each
of these team leads will spawn their own
series of sub aents and begin work on
these various issues. So over in the
dashboard, we can watch each of these
different agents get spawned. Um and if
we want to go ahead and inspect what
these agents are up to, we can run
overstory inspect and then just the
agent name. So say I want to inspect
this infra lead. This will give me a
snapshot of what the cloud code instance
that is working on the infrastructure
lead team wi is up to. So in addition to
being able to inspect a specific agent
state, we can run overstory watch and
this will showcase what exactly every
agent is doing. You know do health
checks on each of them um as well as
send nudges between agents. So, for
example, if the orchestrator or the, you
know, coordinator agent here, um, sorry
about the terminology with orchestrator
and coordinator, um, if that runs into a
problem, it can send an urgent nudge to
one of the lead agents, which will
provide that agent with instructions on
what to do instead of what it is
currently doing. Here, one of my lead
agents has just spawned the first
builder agent. So this agent is the one
responsible for making actual changes to
the codebase. Lead agents and
coordination agents aren't able to
directly edit files. Um so they delegate
by design to agents that are
hyperfocused on that specific problem.
So now over in the coordinator window,
I've just prompted the coordinator to
continuously be checking on the leads.
This is again something that I'm working
on in the system. um sending nudges
between one another. But right now, I
want the coordinator to be up to date
with what is happening in case one of
these agents, you know, goes rogue, does
something that isn't supposed to happen.
We just had a seventh agent boot up. So
now we're working with three different
leads, three different builders. And as
projects get larger and as um specs get
larger and as issues get larger, um I've
seen this system easily scale up to 30
agents at a time. Um and also run for
over 2 hours autonomously. Um especially
in the case of like building a brand new
complicated project, I just pass in the
spec file and the coordinator takes care
of the rest. So, it's a very hands-off
process um that requires a ton of trust
with agents. We just had the first agent
complete its work. So, this builder um
looks like it was there just to build
out some markdown specs or alter some
markdown specs, but this agent just
wrapped up. So, we will be able to see
um a merge request come through here
eventually after the um review agent
here reviews the code. So, this is very
important. This is a review agent
spawned by one of these team leads to
review the work of a builder. We're
getting some interesting behavior over
here from the coordinator. This swarm,
like I said, was built with the
intention of um fanning out the agent
roles a bit more so we don't just have
leads and builders. So now that a
reviewer is actually being run, the
coordinator recognizes that this is a um
new mandatory review loop which was just
added in this uh this run. So uh we have
another agent booting up. So now we're
up to nine different agents in this
swarm um and it's been running for about
11 minutes. Another piece of interesting
behavior that just came about is this uh
infra lead agent just created a new
beads issue. So it ran into something
that needed to be fixed. um filed a bug
for it and then immediately um slung or
delegated that task to a new agent. So
now we're up to 11 agents in this swarm.
So our agent swarm is progressing quite
nicely. This lead agent finished up. So
now we'll see the coordinator pick up
that this agent was done and it's likely
going to set up a merge um which is
handled through Overstory. If we look in
the overstory directory, what happens is
we have different work trees for each
active agent. So this lead agent
finished up and now we're going to see
this
coordinator agent is you know recognized
that this agent is done and it's merge
ready. Now we have a merge pending in
the merge queue and
you know the agent saw that this was a
clean merge and went ahead and just
cleaned that up. So now all of the
changes made by this lead agent as well
as any other builder agents that had
spawned are in the um the root
directory. So this is the main branch
now. So we've just merged it locally
with the main branch. Um I started this
project with no local commits. Now if I
run get status, you can see we're ahead
by one commit here. I have again sent
one prompt I mean two prompts um one
real substantive prompt that was just a
list of issues and so far everything has
been done perfectly. Things are coming
along quite nicely. Basically every
agent has been completed or killed off
here. So this is a zombie agent now. Uh
we have merges going through actively.
So everything is being merged back to
main. The coordinator has completed um
delegating several of the issues that we
started. So here's a little status
update. We have several issues that have
been either merged or closed. Now we
have several that are in progress and
this coordinator is now delegating these
remaining open issues to the new lead
agents. So now we have lead agents
booting back up. Um this looks like a
second observability lead which is
totally fine. So this is booting back
up. Our coordinator agent once again has
noticed several issues ready for
merging. So this is a great example of
where swarms are highly unpredictable.
This is just the nature of having a ton
of LLMs running at once. We can see this
is the observability lead 2 agent up
here. And this agent is attempting to
modify files by itself. So Overstory is
prepped for this. it uh is denying the
edit tool from this lead agent, forcing
this lead agent to delegate this fix to
a builder agent. So, this might be
overkill for some tasks. Um, however, in
my experience,
I found that
forcing delegation like this allows for
me to place more trust into my system. I
would rather an agent with a fresh
context window try and fix a problem
than an agent dig itself into a hole
trying to fix five problems at once. Our
agent swarm here is up to 17 agents. We
can see a reviewer was just spawned.
Like I said, reviewers weren't being
spawned before the fixes made earlier in
this agentic swarm session were
implemented and merged via the
coordinator. So we've watched this
codebase evolve and improve itself in
real time here which is absolutely
insane. Our coordinator agent also
realized that the review loop that was
implemented in this session is working
now. So the re review loop is working as
designed which again didn't exist before
this specific run of swarm. So the swarm
is improving its own code in real time.
17 agents running strong. Last agent,
last lead agent. It just finished up.
It's running the session close protocol.
So, just committing everything, syncing
with beads, as well as hopefully
recording some mulch learnings here. In
the next 10 seconds here, we'll see the
coordinator agent pick up on all these
changes. Yep, we're doing mulch. And
begin to do a massive merge here. Okay,
once again, so we have 22 agents in this
swarm. It's just finishing up. Our
overstory coordinator is last merge
here. And now we're going to see it
clean all of these work trees up. All of
these work trees that were just created
in the overstory directory. It's running
the clean command. We can see all of
those were just removed. Our swarm is
cleaned up. This ran for an hour, which
is pretty crazy. It finished uh I think
nine issues that needed to be worked on.
We can check get status here
and we're ahead by 26 commits. So in
that time the agents did 26 different
commits. Um the coordinator is now
recording all of the insights to mulch
which is perfect. Like I said that was
21 different agents a single coordinator
that orchestrated all of them. We had
26 different commits. And if I run over
story here, we will be able to see some
new um like this feed command is brand
new. Heirs command is brand new. Looks
like we have feed commands here. So
that's thing that needs to be fixed, but
nothing major. This was all of the
agents that we just ran. Uh the
coordinator has reported back and all of
those issues that I sent over uh at the
very beginning with again this was one
single prompt uh with one other prompt.
So, two prompts, one just reminding me
or reminding the coordinator how to uh
run the sleep command and stuff. But
again, one prompt just ran for an hour.
Nine different issues got fixed. 26
commits, 20 plus agents, 20 different
work trees. Absolutely amazing stuff.
So, please go check out Overstory if you
like this. If you're interested in
agentic swarms, this stuff is moving so
crazy fast. So, I'd recommend you get
dialed in sooner rather than later
because I'm sure by the time I release
my video on Friday. Overstory will be
leagues ahead of where it is now. So,
before I close out this video, thank you
so much for watching. If you're
interested in hearing more from me,
seeing some live streams where I'm doing
live developer sessions, um please check
out Promprad. It'll be linked down
below. That's my school community. It's
completely free right now. So, go check
it out. Um, and if you're interested in
working with me, I do consulting work,
so please go check out
consulting.jimmanwest.com.
That'll be linked down below. Again,
thank you so much for watching. Go check
out Overstory, and I will see you again
on Friday if I don't make a video before
then.